the Terminator franchise has been
through so many reboots alternate
timelines and retcons and at this point
I'm not even sure the machines know what
side they're on anymore but even though
the only sequel we universally care
about is 1991's Terminator 2 Judgment
Day and this new one might ignore the
whole franchise completely we're gonna
walk you through all five Terminator
films leading all the way up to dark
fate anyway because it's cram it and
that's what cram it do look it's either
Skynet or we start arguing about rise of
Skywalker early and I choose Skynet
James Cameron's original 1984 film The
Terminator opens in the ruins of Los
Angeles in the unimaginably distant
future of 2029 civilization has been
destroyed and the few human survivors
left are locked in a war against an
artificially intelligent computerized
defense system known as Skynet which
seeks to wipe them out permanently
somehow mankind is winning thanks to the
leadership skills of a guy named John
Connor so the machine send one of their
own a cyborg that can pass for human
known as a terminator back in time to
1984 to kill John Connors mother Sarah
Connor before she can even get pregnant
this is an early Terminator model known
as a t800 we'll meet more advanced in
ridiculous versions in later films
because sequels see he's naked because
the time machine and the terminator
universe can only send things back that
are covered in flesh and also because
Arnold worked hard for that but and he
deserved to show it off the future
humans figure out the machines evil
plans and send someone back to protect
Sarah Connor he is a protege of John
Connors named Kyle Reese both the t800
and Reese gathered needed essentials and
the Terminator kills the first two Sarah
Connors it finds in the phone book but
they don't really matter in the story
it's a real justice for beb's situation
the important Sarah Connor is a
mild-mannered waitress she hears about
the other Sarah Connor killings on TV
and you're a bad friend honey both Reese
and the Terminator locate her at the
same moment at a nightclub that the
movie really wants us to know is on Pico
Boulevard
I know it's on Pico and the chase is on
for the rest of the movie come with me
if you want to live yeah he said the
thing the Terminator chases them across
LA and everyone gets into a very epic
crash the robot not a robot cyborg okay
fine the cybernetic organism gets away
to performs himself repairs and upgrades
his style meanwhile recent Sarah get
arrested at the police station
psychologist dr. Silber Minister Sarah
that Reese is just your everyday
delusional madman but before he can
issue an official diagnosis the
Terminator finds them says his
catchphrase I'll be back and drives a
car through the lobby a whole bunch of
people get terminated but recent Sarah
get away check into a motel talk about
Sarah's future kid and do some
tastefully shot lovemaking post-coitus
the Terminator finds them and the chase
for zooms the Terminator gets blown up
burned blown up some more but this thing
will just not stay down okay Kyle did
you think the pipe was gonna work yeah
ultimately Rhys is killed but Sarah
manages to crush the Terminator in an
abandoned Factory still operational
hydraulic press that's a lucky find
notice that the terminators arm was
extended out of the press and did not
get destroyed that's gonna be important
later after a few months we rejoin Sarah
who's living off the grid in Mexico
she's pregnant now with little baby John
Connor whose father it turns out was
Kyle Reese the whole time even though
Hulk says time travel does not work that
way take it up with Big Jim Cameron Hulk
Terminator 2 was released in 1991 but
jumps a few more years ahead to 1995
giving John Connor enough time to grow
into a very rude kid with a passion for
petty crime what a crappy 11-year old
anyway his mom Sarah told way too many
people about her visions of the Robo
apocalypse sorry the cybernetic organism
apocalypse and got herself committed to
a mental asylum unfortunately the
machines have sent back another
terminator an advanced liquid metal
version known as the t1000 this time
programmed to kill young John but future
John Connor saw all of us coming somehow
and sent his own reprogrammed t800 back
in time to serve as a protect
young John armed with his new t800 pal
decides to break his mom out of the
psych ward I'm gonna go get my mom and I
order you to help me a task she has
already been working on herself as Sara
takes dr. Silberman hostage remember him
from the first movie that guy John and
the t800 arrive and rescue her come with
me if you want to live and not a moment
too soon
once free everyone gets patched up but a
newly freed Sara ditches her son and his
new robot pal to go kill miles Dyson the
computer scientist who will go on to
create and build Skynet his company
Cyberdyne systems recovered the
remaining pieces of the previous
Terminator and have been using it to
replicate the technology Dyson finds out
his invention is going to take this dark
turn and is pretty receptive to the idea
that they should just shut the whole
thing down so together they all break
into Cyberdyne HQ and destroy Dyson's
research there's a huge showdown with
the police and which Dyson is killed but
the t800 Sara and John get away they
leading the t1000 on a chase to a random
steel Factory in the 90s they were on
every corner like Starbucks an extended
fight ensues hasta la vista baby
the t1000 is coated in liquid nitrogen
and exploded but then it like blurps
itself back together but finally after a
lot more shooting the t1000 falls into a
vat of molten steel and disintegrates
John and Sara say a tearful goodbye to
friendly t800 before lowering him into
the steel to ensure that cyber Tynes
technology is destroyed before it can
kill all of humanity and that's the end
forever there's no more of these more
accurately that's the end until
Terminator 3 rise of the machines which
jumps ahead 9 years to 2004 Sarah Connor
has died a hero's death
off screen her son John has been taking
odd jobs and living off the grid he
still convinced Judgment Day could
happen as evidenced by this gratuitous
future war dream sequence and wouldn't
you know John's right on the money the
machine somehow still exists and have
sent yet another terminator back in time
to kill him this time
it's a lady Terminator or terminate
Rick's called the TX
she's got a lot of fancy new abilities
that totally don't feel like a group of
mid-level male executives stood around a
whiteboard and came up with potential
new terminator abilities and huh
fortunately humanity sent back protector
just like last time to look after John
this one's a Model T 850 which means it
comes with its own plot device in the
form of hydrogen fuel cells and it looks
exactly 12 years older what an upgrade
plus this model comes stocked with a
timely new catchphrase talk to the hand
okay humanity's Savior wipes out on his
motorcycle and breaks into an animal
hospital to patch himself up and steal
some drugs and that's where he meets
veterinary assistant Kate Brewster who
takes away his paintball gun and shoots
him with it before locking him in a cage
hey it's a meet-cute and a meat shoot
that's fun anyway then the terminators
arrived it turns out the TX isn't just
after John but she's also after Kate
in fact she's got a whole Arya Stark
list the ex was sent back to the time to
eliminate you lieutenants and not only
is Kate one of John's chief lieutenants
in the future but he's your wife romance
and a big change up from the last film
at least according to the t 850 there's
actually nothing anyone can do to alter
the future Judgment Day is inevitable
Wow way to render Terminator 2 pointless
you guys good thing no one likes that
movie anyway they go to visit Sara's
grave but it turns out she was cremated
and used the coffin to stash a bunch of
weapons Oh Sara she did love weapons dr.
Silberman does his cameo a pre homeland
Claire Danes preps her ugly crying chops
and our heroes decide not to just flee
for safety but to go after Kate's father
who also happens to be the top US
general overseeing Skynet he's the key
he always was your father is the one who
can shut Skynet down that's right all
this time Kate's dad is the guy who's
been carrying on Dyson's research see
Skynet has tricked humanity by making it
look like there was a super virus taking
over their defense systems so the
Pentagon has proposed that we use our AI
to scan the entire infrastructure Search
and Destroy for any hint of the virus
nice to know humanity's gonna eat it
because an old guy was tricked into
opening a malware email way to go
general before Kate John and the T 850
can get to him general Brewster gives
Skynet the
go ahead and the end of the world begins
our heroes arrived just in time to see
him shot by the TX while the t 850 and
the TX have a meeting in the ladies room
a dying general Brewster tells John and
Kate to go to a facility deep in the
mountains called Crystal peak which
sounds like the guillermo del toro film
but that's crimson peak they're totally
different Peaks the TX bashes the crap
out of the t 850 and even hacks into him
turning him against his friends but he
manages to shut himself down before
hurting John and failing in his mission
kate leads the escape via knowing how to
fly which you know what okay her dad's
military I'll accept it they make it to
Crystal peak with both terminators close
behind I'm back the terminators fight
some more and ultimately both get blowed
up real good by the t8 fifties final
fried hydrogen fuel-cell
John and Kate thought they were being
sent to the Skynet core that would allow
them to stop Judgment Day from happening
but it turns out it was software in
cyberspace
there was no system core yeah you guys
know how it is with software and in
cyberspace but yeah man like the
Terminator already said Judgment Day was
inevitable he's a cybernetic organism he
literally can't lie everyone should
really listen to him more talk to the
hand
anyway Judgment Day happens but crystal
peak was designed as a bunker for VIPs
so it's the perfect setting for John to
rise to the occasion and take control of
the human resistance to the machines
finally fulfilling his destiny the end
except not 2009's Terminator Salvation
is the first and only Terminator film
that actually takes place after Judgment
Day during the ensuing war between
humanity and the machines as such it
introduces a ton of new Terminator
designs like the massive powa 'king
Harvester very sleek moto terminators
and of course hide robots
none of which you'll ever see again
because this version of the future has
been retconned
out of existence so let's jump back to
2003 before the fall of civilization and
the execution of death row inmate Marcus
Wright
Marcus is visited in his cell by a
researcher named dr. Helena Bonham
Carter who offers him a chance to
participate in a mysterious scientific
program that will grant him some vague
of life after death and for some
inexplicable reason he agrees then
Terminator 3 goes down Judgment Day
happens and humanity's war against the
machines begins in earnest that's
Christian Bale as adult John Connor he's
got his own team but he's not the actual
leader of the resistance that would be
general Ashton in the year 2018 John's
team raids a Skynet outpost and in the
process frees Marcus Wright who is
inexplicably still alive when John gets
back to the resistance base he's told
that Skynet plans to assassinate a long
list of resistance leaders along with a
familiar name Kyle Reese this is still
the same timeline as terminator in
Terminator 2 so this John knows that
Kyle Reese is his father and that he has
to save his dad or he'll you know
never exist which would be a bummer
Marcus meets up with Kyle Reese in the
wasteland and just in the nick of time
because he's about to get murked by a
terminator with a chain gun
Marcus who only remembers being a death
row inmate is generally confused about
waking up in the future but Kyle who's
also caring for an orphaned girl named
Starr convinces him to help track the
resistance and find John Connor a voice
he's only ever heard over the radio this
is John Connor unfortunately soon after
this Kyle and star are captured by a
massive harvester robot and taken to
Skynet central the machines base of
operations in the aftermath of the
attack Marcus meets up with the
resistance soldier named Blair who takes
him back to her base and her commander
John Connor that's where they make a
shocking discovery
Marcus is actually a machine thank you
you
a new kind of Terminator who has a human
heart and brain and believes his a
regular person John wants to destroy him
on sight even after Marcus tells him
about his adventures with Kyle Reese but
Blair recognizing Marcus's humanity sets
him free
Marcus infiltrates Skynet HQ in order to
find Kyle Reese
John understanding the crucial
importance of this mission to his own
survival goes as well I'll be back he
said the thing to once it's kinda at HQ
John meets up with a prototype for the
t800 it's basically a nude
computer-generated Arnold Schwarzenegger
they have a fun reunion
Marcus overcomes a Skynet programming
and helps John survive the t800 s
attacks although John comes by his
trademark facial scar in the process do
you want to know how I got these scars
it's a very convoluted story John saves
Marcus as well but gets impaled through
the chest by a terminator in the process
still the resistance manages to escape
and destroy Skynet HQ from the air this
doesn't end the war but it's a pretty
big setback for the machines John's
badly injured but Marcus volunteers to
donate his heart to keep his new friend
alive oh and so the human resistance
lives to fight another day
v end oh also Bryce Dallas Howard was in
this she was Claire Danes his character
but a little bit older she didn't have
much to do
sorry Bryce Dallas Howard that's all of
it terminator genisys completely
reimagines the entire series and it
takes place in its own separate timeline
think of it as basically like a
terminator what if story
none of it links up to dark fate but
it's a very weird movie so let's talk
about it in this reality Judgment Day
went down in 1997 leaving a young Kyle
Reese to fend for himself in the ruins
of San Francisco which is where he meets
brave and already prominently scarred
resistance leader John Connor years
later with the war against the machines
at an end it's time for John to send an
adult Kyle back in time to 1984 to
protect his mother Sarah and also and
they should be able to mate with the
Calvary's in his timeline yeah exactly
mate that wasn't weird but just as Kyle
enters the time chamber or whatever it's
called a resistance soldier reveals
himself to be a machine and also
possibly the 11th doctor he attacks John
Connor with
already time jumping Rhys helpless to
intervene during the time jump race
begins to recall a whole series of
memories from an alternate childhood he
never experienced one word judgment day
never happened the message includes a
specific directive from his child self
that directive I like candy kidding it's
this remember Genisys is Skynet
when Genisys comes online judgment day
begins you can kill Skynet before it's
born what a weird thing for a kid to say
at first it seems like we're just gonna
recreate the action from the first movie
with both Kyle and a t800 arriving in
1984 LA looking for Sarah Connor but
things take a sharp left immediately the
newly-arrived t800 is taken out by
another terminator who looks a bit older
I've been waiting for you also Sarah
Connor is there and she already knows
all about the machines from the future
also she is khaleesi kyle meanwhile is
greeted by a liquid metal t1000 who
isn't even supposed to be in play until
ILM effects make impossible in the early
1990s so this is crazy
eventually Sarah and her friend the
Terminator whom she calls pops tracked
down Reese and pick him up in their
armored van you see in this timeline
Sarah and her family were attacked by a
t-1000 in 1973 and this t800 had been
sent back to protect her he's been
looking after her ever since that's why
he looks older it's definitely not
because the guy playing him took time
off to be governor but who sent these
robots back in time to the 70s whoever
sent him they don't want us to know not
me not him not anyone so Skynet can't
target the person who saved me okay but
how does this terminator from the 70s
know all the alternate timeline
catchphrases I'll be back
anyway Sarah and pops knew that Kyle in
this t1000 would be arriving so they
laid a trap for it and it works the
liquid metal guy goes out in a rain of
acid the next phase of their plan
involves jumping forward to 1997 and
preventing Judgment Day using their very
own time displacement device but Kyle
based on his weird time jump dreams has
a different suggestion so Kyle and Sarah
used the time machine to jump forward to
San Francisco in 2017 while pops waits
behind and ages gracefully upon arriving
in the future they're immediately
arrested like the insane sounding nude
freaks that they are those nude freaks
they're crazy
arrest them and they're taken to a
hospital that's where they find out what
the genesis from Kyle's dream refers to
the whole thing's being developed by
miles Dyson and his son Danny on behalf
of Cyberdyne systems unexpectedly an
adult John Connor somehow shows up to
rescue Sarah and Kyle but even more
surprising John reveals that he's not
human anymore but a new kind of
Terminator a human machine hybrid called
the t 3000 s what happened when you're
attacked isn't this kind of didn't
attack me Kyle it changed me
I'm not machine not man I'm more that
would have been a crazy surprise but
they put it in the trailer so he pops
helps Kyle and Sarah get away and as
they do they discovered that the John
bot has trouble with magnets magnets how
do they work
the team's new plan is to set explosive
charges around Cyberdyne HQ destroying
the entire operation before genesis can
launch in just a few days robot John's
present certainly doesn't make things
simpler but with the help of some trusty
magnet gloves and magnetic ammos stolen
from the police HQ magnet division they
make it to the facility and meet the
Genesis program which is quickly
evolving into Skynet and becoming
self-aware hate it when that happens the
charges are placed Skynet does its best
fantasy impression and pops finally
manages to take out the t 3000 by
pulling it into a time vortex
the explosives go off destroying
Cyberdyne HQ but pop survives after
being thrown into the same t1000 liquid
metal polyalloy this also fixes him
makes him look younger and does wonders
for his pores also Sarah and Kyle are
totally gonna make will their offspring
turn into a hideous half-machine
abomination which should not exist who
knows such as the thrill of new romance
a post-credit scene shows us at the Matt
Smith hologram version of Skynet hidden
deep underground along with the Genesis
core survived the explosion I don't know
what's scarier that for the fact that
they thought there were gonna be more of
these movies also JK Simmons was in this
as a cop who first saw Kyle Sarah and a
terminator in the 80s and so guesses
that their time travelers in 2017 but
then he
didn't have much to do sorry JK Simmons
and sorry you guys having to bear with
me talking about terminator genisys but
that's it this is everything you need to
know to enjoy dark fate plus three extra
movies because this one's gonna pick up
after Terminator 2 and retcon the others
out of existence also the TV series
Sarah Connor Chronicles was so much
better than these last few movies and it
also cast a game of Thrones star Sarah
Connor so you know what while you're
waiting for dark fate make sure to check
it out guys that's the Terminator cram
it until next time I'll be back
hey I said the thing
[Music]